The Project Gutenberg eBook of Little Women; Or, Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook. Title: Little Women; Or, Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy Author: Louisa May Alcott Illustrator: Frank T. Merrill Release date: August 16, 2011 [eBook #37106] Most recently updated: May 22, 2023 Language: English Credits: David Edwards, Ernest Schaal, Robert Homa, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team *** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LITTLE WOMEN; OR, MEG, JO, BETH, AND AMY *** [Illustration: LITTLE WOMEN MEG, JO, BETH, AND AMY LOUISA M. ALCOTT] LITTLE WOMEN. [Illustration: "They all drew to the fire, mother in the big chair, with Beth at her feet" (See page 9) FRONTISPIECE] LITTLE WOMEN OR Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy BY LOUISA M. ALCOTT AUTHOR OF "LITTLE MEN," "AN OLD-FASHIONED GIRL" "SPINNING-WHEEL STORIES," ETC. _With more than 200 illustrations by Frank T. Merrill and a picture of the Home of the Little Women by Edmund H. Garrett_ BOSTON LITTLE, BROWN, AND COMPANY Entered according to Act of Congress, in the years 1868 and 1869, by LOUISA M. ALCOTT, In the Clerk's office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts. _Copyright, 1880_, BY LOUISA M. ALCOTT. _Copyright, 1896_, BY JOHN S. P. ALCOTT. BOSTON ALFRED MUDGE & SON INC. PRINTERS [Illustration: Preface] "_Go then, my little Book, and show to all That entertain and bid thee welcome shall, What thou dost keep close shut up in thy breast; And wish what thou dost show them may be blest To them for good, may make them choose to be Pilgrims better, by far, than thee or me. Tell them of Mercy; she is one Who early hath her pilgrimage begun. Yea, let young damsels learn of her to prize The world which is to come, and so be wise; For little tripping maids may follow God Along the ways which saintly feet have trod._" Adapted from JOHN BUNYAN. [Illustration: Contents] Part First. CHAPTER I. PLAYING PILGRIMS II. A MERRY CHRISTMAS III. THE LAURENCE BOY IV. BURDENS V. BEING NEIGHBORLY VI. BETH FINDS THE PALACE BEAUTIFUL VII. AMY'S VALLEY OF HUMILIATION VIII. JO MEETS APOLLYON IX. MEG GOES TO VANITY FAIR X. THE P. C. AND P. O. XI. EXPERIMENTS XII. CAMP LAURENCE XIII. CASTLES IN THE AIR XIV. SECRETS XV. A TELEGRAM XVI. LETTERS XVII. LITTLE FAITHFUL XVIII. DARK DAYS XIX. AMY'S WILL XX. CONFIDENTIAL XXI. LAURIE MAKES MISCHIEF, AND JO MAKES PEACE XXII. PLEASANT MEADOWS XXIII. AUNT MARCH SETTLES THE QUESTION Part Second. XXIV. GOSSIP XXV. THE FIRST WEDDING XXVI. ARTISTIC ATTEMPTS XXVII. LITERARY LESSONS XXVIII. DOMESTIC EXPERIENCES XXIX. CALLS XXX. CONSEQUENCES XXXI. OUR FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT XXXII. TENDER TROUBLES XXXIII. JO'S JOURNAL XXXIV. A FRIEND XXXV. HEARTACHE XXXVI. BETH'S SECRET XXXVII. NEW IMPRESSIONS XXXVIII. ON THE SHELF XXXIX. LAZY LAURENCE XL. THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW XLI. LEARNING TO FORGET XLII. ALL ALONE XLIII. SURPRISES XLIV. MY LORD AND LADY XLV. DAISY AND DEMI XLVI. UNDER THE UMBRELLA XLVII. HARVEST TIME [Illustration: Tail-piece to Contents] [Illustration: List of illustrations.] [The Illustrations, designed by FRANK T. MERRILL, drawn, engraved, and printed under the supervision of GEORGE T. ANDREW.] PAGE They all drew to the fire, mother in the big chair, with Beth at her feet Preface Contents Tail-piece to Contents List of Illustrations Tail-piece to Illustrations Christmas won't be Christmas without any presents Beth put a pair of slippers down to warm I used to be so frightened when it was my turn to sit in the big chair Do it this way, clasp your hands so It was a cheerful, hopeful letter How you used to play Pilgrim's Progress No one but Beth could get much music out of the old piano At nine they stopped work and sung as usual Merry Christmas The procession set out Out came Meg with gray horse-hair hanging about her face A little figure in cloudy white The lovers kneeling to receive Don Pedro's blessing We talked over the fence Tail-piece Eating apples and crying over the "Heir of Redclyffe" Jo undertook to pinch the papered locks Mrs. Gardiner greeted them Face to face with the Laurence boy They sat down on the stairs Tell about the party The kitten stuck like a burr just out of reach Curling herself up in the big chair Reading that everlasting Belsham He took her by the ear! by the ear! Mr. Laurence hooked up a big fish Tail-piece Being neighborly Laurie opened the window Poll tweaked off his wig Putting his finger under her chin Please give these to your mother Tail-piece O sir, they do care very much Mr. Laurence often opened his study door She put both arms around his neck and kissed him The Cyclops Amy bore without flinching several tingling blows You do know her Girls, where are you going? I burnt it up Held Amy up by his arms and hockey Packing the go abroady trunk Meg's partner appeared Asked to be introduced I wouldn't, Meg Holding a hand of each, Mrs. March said, &c. Mr. Pickwick Jo threw open the door of the closet Jo spent the morning on the river Amy sat down to draw O Pip! O Pip! Miss Crocker made a wry face We'll work like bees Beth was post-mistress Amy capped the climax by putting a clothes-pin on her nose 151 Mr. Laurence waving his hat Now, Miss Jo, I'll settle you A very merry lunch it was He went prancing down a quiet street "Oh, rise," she said A stunning blow from the big Greek lexicon He sneezed The Portuguese walked the plank Will you give me a rose? Miss Kate put up her glass Ellen Tree Tail-piece Swinging to and fro in his hammock It was rather a pretty little picture Waved a brake before her face I see him bow and smile Tail-piece Jo was very busy Hurrah for Miss March Jo darted away Jo laid herself on the sofa and affected to read November is the most disagreeable month in the year One of them horrid telegraph things She came suddenly upon Mr. Brooke The man clipped Tail-piece Letters She rolled away I wind the clock Yours Respectful, Hannah Mullet Tail-piece It didn't stir, and I knew it was dead He sat down beside her What do you want now? Beth did have the fever Gently stroking her head as her mother used to do Amy's Will Polish up the spoons and the fat silver teapot On his back, with all his legs in the air I should choose this Gravely promenaded to and fro Amy's Will Tail-piece Mrs. March would not leave Beth's side Tail-piece Letters Jo and her mother were reading the note Get up and don't be a goose "Hold your tongue!" cried Jo, covering her ears He stood at the foot, like a lion in the path Beth was soon able to lie on the study sofa all day The Jungfrau Popping in her head now and then He sat in the big chair by Beth's sofa with the other three close by Shall I tell you how? Bless me, what's all this? For Mrs. John Brooke Home of the Little Women The Dove Cote A small watchman's rattle Tail-piece The First Wedding Artistic Attempts Her foot held fast in a panful of plaster Please don't, it's mine Tail-piece Literary Lessons A check for one hundred dollars Tail-piece Domestic Experiences Both felt desperately uncomfortable A bargain, I assure you, ma'am Laurie heroically shut his eyes while something was put into his arms Calls She took the saddle to the horse It might have been worse The call at Aunt March's Tail-piece You shall have another table Bought up the bouquets Tail-piece Flo and I ordered a hansom-cab Every one was very kind, especially the officers I've seen the imperial family several times Trying to sketch the gray-stone lion's head on the wall She leaned her head upon her hands Now, this is filling at the price Up with the Bonnets of Bonnie Dundee I amused myself by dropping gingerbread nuts over the seat Thou shalt haf thy Bhaer He waved his hand, sock and all Dis is mine effalunt I sat down upon the floor and read and looked and ate Tail-piece In the presence of three gentlemen A select symposium He doesn't prink at his glass before coming Jo stuffed the whole bundle into the stove He put the sisters into the carriage He laid his head down on the mossy post O Jo, can't you? Tail-piece With her head in Jo's lap, while the wind blew healthfully over her Tail-piece He hurried forward to meet her Here are your flowers Demi and Daisy Mornin' now My dear man, it's a bonnet Tail-piece Sat piping on a stone while his goats skipped Laurie threw himself down on the turf A rough sketch of Laurie taming a horse The Valley of the Shadow Tail-piece Sat staring up at the busts Turning the ring thoughtfully upon his finger O Laurie, Laurie, I knew you'd come How well we pull together Jo and her father Jo laid her head on a comfortable rag-bag and cried A substantial lifelike ghost leaning over her The tall uncle proceeded to toss and tousle the small nephew O Mr. Bhaer, I am so glad to see you Mr. Bhaer sang heartily Mrs. Laurence sitting in her mother's lap They began to pace up and down Tail-piece Me loves evvybody What makes my legs go, dranpa? Dranpa, it's a We Tail-piece Mr. Bhaer and Jo were enjoying promenades Looking up she saw Mr. Bhaer Does this suit you, Mr. Bhaer? Under the umbrella Tail-piece Harvest time Teddy bore a charmed life Leaving Mrs. March and her daughters under the festival tree Tail-piece [Illustration: Tail-piece to Illustrations] [Illustration: Christmas won't be Christmas without any presents] I. PLAYING PILGRIMS. "Christmas won't be Christmas without any presents," grumbled Jo, lying on the rug. "It's so dreadful to be poor!" sighed Meg, looking down at her old dress. "I don't think it's fair for some girls to have plenty of pretty things, and other girls nothing at all," added little Amy, with an injured sniff. "We've got father and mother and each other," said Beth contentedly, from her corner. The four young faces on which the firelight shone brightened at the cheerful words, but darkened again as Jo said sadly,-- "We haven't got father, and shall not have him for a long time." She didn't say "perhaps never," but each silently added it, thinking of father far away, where the fighting was. Nobody spoke for a minute; then Meg said in an altered tone,-- "You know the reason mother proposed not having any presents this Christmas was because it is going to be a hard winter for every one; and she thinks we ought not to spend money for pleasure, when our men are suffering so in the army. We can't do much, but we can make our little sacrifices, and ought to do it gladly. But I am afraid I don't;" and Meg shook her head, as she thought regretfully of all the pretty things she wanted. "But I don't think the little we should spend would do any good. We've each got a dollar, and the army wouldn't be much helped by our giving that. I agree not to expect anything from mother or you, but I do want to buy Undine and Sintram for myself; I've wanted it _so_ long," said Jo, who was a bookworm. "I planned to spend mine in new music," said Beth, with a little sigh, which no one heard but the hearth-brush and kettle-holder. "I shall get a nice box of Faber's drawing-pencils; I really need them," said Amy decidedly. "Mother didn't say anything about our money, and she won't wish us to give up everything. Let's each buy what we want, and have a little fun; I'm sure we work hard enough to earn it," cried Jo, examining the heels of her shoes in a gentlemanly manner. "I know _I_ do,--teaching those tiresome children nearly all day, when I'm longing to enjoy myself at home," began Meg, in the complaining tone again. "You don't have half such a hard time as I do," said Jo. "How would you like to be shut up for hours with a nervous, fussy old lady, who keeps you trotting, is never satisfied, and worries you till you're ready to fly out of the window or cry?" "It's naughty to fret; but I do think washing dishes and keeping things tidy is the worst work in the world. It makes me cross; and my hands get so stiff, I can't practise well at all;" and Beth looked at her rough hands with a sigh that any one could hear that time. "I don't believe any of you suffer as I do," cried Amy; "for you don't have to go to school with impertinent girls, who plague you if you don't know your lessons, and laugh at your dresses, and label your father if he isn't rich, and insult you when your nose isn't nice." "If you mean _libel_, I'd say so, and not talk about _labels_, as if papa was a pickle-bottle," advised Jo, laughing. "I know what I mean, and you needn't be _statirical_ about it. It's proper to use good words, and improve your _vocabilary_," returned Amy, with dignity. "Don't peck at one another, children. Don't you wish we had the money papa lost when we were little, Jo? Dear me! how happy and good we'd be, if we had no worries!" said Meg, who could remember better times. "You said the other day, you thought we were a deal happier than the King children, for they were fighting and fretting all the time, in spite of their money." "So I did, Beth. Well, I think we are; for, though we do have to work, we make fun for ourselves, and are a pretty jolly set, as Jo would say." "Jo does use such slang words!" observed Amy, with a reproving look at the long figure stretched on the rug. Jo immediately sat up, put her hands in her pockets, and began to whistle. "Don't, Jo; it's so boyish!" "That's why I do it." "I detest rude, unlady-like girls!" "I hate affected, niminy-piminy chits!" "'Birds in their little nests agree,'" sang Beth, the peace-maker, with such a funny face that both sharp voices softened to a laugh, and the "pecking" ended for that time. "Really, girls, you are both to be blamed," said Meg, beginning to lecture in her elder-sisterly fashion. "You are old enough to leave off boyish tricks, and to behave better, Josephine. It didn't matter so much when you were a little girl; but now you are so tall, and turn up your hair, you should remember that you are a young lady." "I'm not! and if turning up my hair makes me one, I'll wear it in two tails till I'm twenty," cried Jo, pulling off her net, and shaking down a chestnut mane. "I hate to think I've got to grow up, and be Miss March, and wear long gowns, and look as prim as a China-aster! It's bad enough to be a girl, anyway, when I like boys' games and work and manners! I can't get over my disappointment in not being a boy; and it's worse than ever now, for I'm dying to go and fight with papa, and I can only stay at home and knit, like a poky old woman!" And Jo shook the blue army-sock till the needles rattled like castanets, and her ball bounded across the room. "Poor Jo! It's too bad, but it can't be helped; so you must try to be contented with making your name boyish, and playing brother to us girls," said Beth, stroking the rough head at her knee with a hand that all the dish-washing and dusting in the world could not make ungentle in its touch. "As for you, Amy," continued Meg, "you are altogether too particular and prim. Your airs are funny now; but you'll grow up an affected little goose, if you don't take care. I like your nice manners and refined ways of speaking, when you don't try to be elegant; but your absurd words are as bad as Jo's slang." "If Jo is a tom-boy and Amy a goose, what am I, please?" asked Beth, ready to share the lecture. "You're a dear, and nothing else," answered Meg warmly; and no one contradicted her, for the "Mouse" was the pet of the family. As young readers like to know "how people look," we will take this moment to give them a little sketch of the four sisters, who sat knitting away in the twilight, while the December snow fell quietly without, and the fire crackled cheerfully within. It was a comfortable old room, though the carpet was faded and the furniture very plain; for a good picture or two hung on the walls, books filled the recesses, chrysanthemums and Christmas roses bloomed in the windows, and a pleasant atmosphere of home-peace pervaded it. Margaret, the eldest of the four, was sixteen, and very pretty, being plump and fair, with large eyes, plenty of soft, brown hair, a sweet mouth, and white hands, of which she was rather vain. Fifteen-year-old Jo was very tall, thin, and brown, and reminded one of a colt; for she never seemed to know what to do with