of the 1869 novel. On page 185, transcribe door-way with the hyphen. See page 217 of the 1869 novel. Also, change doorway to door-way a few lines down the same page. See page 218 of the 1869 novel. On page 189, the comma after "published every day" was replaced with a period. See page 225 of 1869 book. On page 198, the clause: "Beth, go and ask Mr. Laurence for a couple of bottles of old wine:" was written as it appeared in the 1896 novel. The clause ended in with a semi-colon in the 1869 book (see page 234). On page 200, change needlework to needle-work. See page 236 of the 1869 novel. On page 209, "turnovers" was replaced with "turn-overs". See page 246 of the 1869 novel. On page 214, the single quotation mark before "Head Nurse of Ward" was replaced with a double quotation mark. See page 252 of the 1869 novel. On page 218, "Year's ago" was replaced with "Years ago". See page 257 of the 1869 novel. On page 219, "ask him so help" was replaced with "ask him to help". See page 257 of the 1869 novel. On page 219, add period after "give it to her." See page 258 of the 1869 novel. On page 230, "two, A.M." is spelled the same way, with the comma, in this book and in the 1869 novel (on page 272). The comma was retained. On page 244, "postscrips" was replaced with "postscripts". See page 287 of the 1869 novel. On page 279, place exclamation point after won't in 'No, I won't!' See page 329 in the 1869 novel. On page 286, "actingly" was replaced with "acting". See page 337 of the 1869 novel. On page 288, add comma after mankind in the clause "who felt at peace with all mankind even his mischievous pupil." See page 339 of the 1869 novel. On page 294, transcribe gray-headed with the hyphen. See page 5 of the 1869 novel. On page 295, add a comma after salary in the phrase "with an honestly-earned salary." See page 7 of the 1869 book. Checked the clause "But once get used to these slight blemishes" on page 297. The sentence appears the same way on page 10 of the 1869 novel. Checked the clause "People who hire all these things done for them never know what they lose" on page 298. The sentence has a comma after them, but is otherwise written the same way on page 11 of the 1869 novel. On page 299, transcribe door-handles with the hyphen. See page 13 of the 1869 novel. On page 339, "shortcomings" was replaced with "short-comings". See page 62 of the 1869 novel. On page 345, "furbelows and notions" was written "furbelows and quinny-dingles" in the 1869 novel. See page 59 of the 1869 novel. We made no change, and only point this out because quinny-dingles is such a memorable word that those intimate with the novel may notice the change. On page 353, change snowbank to snow-bank. See page 79 of the 1869 novel. On page 363, a double quotation mark was added before "Cross-patch, draw the latch". See page 91 of the 1869 book. On page 379, change period after Jo to a comma in the clause "as for Jo. she would have gone up". See page 109 of the 1869 book. On page 380, a comma was added after "all lying down". See page 111 of the 1869 book. On page 393, the punctuation after 'but so was everybody's' is difficult to read. It could be a colon or semicolon. In the 1869 novel, the mark is a semi-colon (see page 126). We used the semi-colon. On page 396, the second line of the verse beginning with "'Out upon you," is indented. In the 1869 version, the capital B of "Bold-faced jig!'" is lined-up under Out. We aligned the verse as the 1869 version of the novel--see page 131. On page 404, add period after heaviness. See page 140 of the 1869 novel. On page 405, transcribe needle-work with the hyphen. See page 141 of the 1869 book. On Page 411, a letter is curiously addressed to Betsey, both here and on page 148 of the 1869 book. On Page 413, removed double quotes around Yes in "Yes," they say to one another, these so kind ladies. Instead, place a single quote in front of Yes, because Bhaer is resuming his quote. The resumed quote concludes with a single quote after me and mine. See page 151 of the 1869 novel. The double quote before 'he is a stupid old fellow' is actually a triple-nested quote, ending in make themselves. On page 417, transcribe Teddy-ism as Teddyism. See page 155 of the 1869 novel. On page 451, a period was added after "I can't let you go". See page 196 of the 1869 novel. On page 463, "Tarantula" was used as the name of a dance, but the author might have meant "Tarantella," which is the name of an Italian dance about tarantulas. On page 468, transcribe chess-board with the hyphen. See page 218 of the 1869 novel. On page 512, a period was added after "she said softly". If you see page 272 of the 1869 novel, you will also notice a comma in 'she said, softly.' We added the period but not the comma. On page 514, the 1869 novel did not have a comma after oar in the sentence: "I'm not tired; but you may take an oar, if you like. See page 525 of the 1869 novel. We did not remove the comma. On page 527, "the 'the best nevvy" was replaced with "the best nevvy". On page 527, change he to the in 'like Jenny and he ballad'. See page 291 of the 1869 novel. On page 531, David and Peggotty refer to two characters from the novel "David Copperfield" by Charles Dickens. On page 534, change of to off in the clause: Daisy found it impossible to keep her eyes of her "pitty aunty," ... see page 300 of the 1869 novel. On page 541, "know'st thou the land where the citron blooms," was broken into two stanzas in the book for spacing. We transcribed this as one line. See page 308 in 1869 novel. On page 551, transcribe Dove-cote with the hyphen. See page 319 of the 1869 novel. On the first page of ads, a period was added after "THE LITTLE WOMEN SERIES. New Illustrated Edition". On the second page of ads, in the blurb for the book Comic Tragedies, a period as placed after "Portraits, etc". After the novel is a list of The Works of Louisa May Alcott. The list is not complete: for example, there are no listings for her work as Flora Fairfield or A. M. Barnard. Nevertheless, the pages are a fine structured outline of Ms. Alcott's best work. Most of the novels and stories in these four pages are published by Project Gutenberg. We included links to these titles for the reader's convenience. A change had to be made for one item: We had to list each of the three volumes of Lulu's Library to provide the links to that book. These links will only work in the HTML document. The final page is a listing of eleven stories originally published in other volumes, such as Jo's Scrap-Bag, Lulu's Library, and A Garland for Girls. These works were subsequently published separately in small volumes, generally less than 100 pages, in The Children's Friend Series. *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LITTLE WOMEN; OR, MEG, JO, BETH, AND AMY *** Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will be renamed. Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without permission and without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™ concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially commercial redistribution. START: FULL LICENSE THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work (or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at www.gutenberg.org/license. Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works 1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™ electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property (trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8. 1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below. 1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the United States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the United States and you are located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™ works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when you share it without charge with others. 1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States, check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country other than the United States. 1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg: 1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, copied or distributed: This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook. 1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™ trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9. 1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work. 1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™ License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™. 1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project Gutenberg™ License. 1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website (www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1. 1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9. 1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works provided that: • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.” • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™ License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™ works. • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of receipt of the work. • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works. 1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below. 1.F. 1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™ electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment. 1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person or entity providing